# What-Drives-the-Price-of-a-Car
In this application, you will explore a dataset from kaggle. The original dataset contained information on 3 million used cars. The provided dataset contains information on 426K cars to ensure speed of processing. Your goal is to understand what factors make a car more or less expensive. As a result of your analysis, you should provide clear recommendations to your client -- a used car dealership -- as to what consumers value in a used car.  To frame the task, throughout these practical applications we will refer back to a standard process in industry for data projects called CRISP-DM. This process provides a framework for working through a data problem. 
This project aims to solve the problem of predicting the price of a used car, using Sklearn's supervised machine learning techniques integrated with Spark-Sklearn library. It is clearly a regression problem and predictions are carried out on dataset of used car sales in the american car market. Several regression tecniques have been studied, including Linear Regression, Decision Trees and Random forests of decision trees. Their performances were compared in order to determine which one works best with out dataset.


Used car price prediction problem
Used car price prediction problem has a certain value because different studies show that the market of used cars is destined to a continuous growth in the short term. In fact, leasing cars is now a common practice through which it is possible to get get hold of a car by paying a fixed sum for an agreed number of months rather than buying it in its entirety. Once leasing period is over, it is possible to buy the car by paying the residual value, i.e. at the expected resale price. It is therefore in the interest of vendors to be able to predict this value with a certain degree of accuracy, since if this value is initially underestimated, the installment will be higher for the customer which will most likely opt for another dealership. It is therefore clear that the price prediction of used cars has a high commercial value, especially in developed countries where the economy of leasing has a certain volume.
This problem, however, is not easy to solve as the car's value depends on many factor including year of registration, manufacturer, model, mileage, horsepower, origin and several other specific informations such as type of fuel and braking sysrem, condition of bodywork and interiors, interior materials (plastics of leather), safery index, type of change (manual, assisted, automatic, semi-automatic), number of doors, number of previous owners, if it was previously owned by a private individual or by a company and the prestige of the manufacturer.
Unfortunately, only a small part of this information is available and therefore it is very important to relate the results obtained in terms of accuracy to the features available for the analysis. Moreover, not all the previously listed features have the same importance, some are more so than others and therefore is essential to identify the most important ones, on which to perform the analysis.
Since some attributes of the dataset aren't relevant to our analysis, they have been discarded; so, as mentioned above, this fact must be taken into account when conclusions on the accuracy are drawn.

USED / OLD CARS PRICE PREDICTION MODEL (Machine Learning)
This repository contains a project using Machine Learning and Data Analysis.
 
